Alright! Let's take a look at using
Mockito Mocks. I've brought up our
RecipeServiceImpl and how
would you test this? So we're gonna take
a look at testing this. We're gonna
leverage Mockito because what's
happening if we want to us that getRecipes method, we need to provide a
RecipeRepository because that is a
required dependency of this class. We
need to inject an instance of RecipeRepository. Now remember at runtime
Spring Data JPA is gonna provide
us that. But here we wanna do that in a
test. So let's take a look at doing that
right now.
So I'm doing a alt+enter. Gonna say go
ahead and create a test and we wanna
test getRecipes and ask IntelliJ to
create that for us. And now you can see
that it's giving us that but we need a
couple of things here. One is gonna be
our service of course.
I'll create that and then we need the
dependency as well because we need to
inject this RecipeRepository.
Now what I wanna do here is
annotate this as a @Mock. So now that is
a Mock but we haven't done anything with
it so we need our test method. So I did a
command N there and I wanna create a
setUp method. So that's a quick way that
we can generate that. A little shortcut
inside of IntelliJ. And now what we
wanna do is first we need to
initialize our mocks. Call it
initMocks and say this. So that's gonna set
up the mocks. That's telling Mockito
give me a mock RecipeRepository.
Now we're gonna init create our
recipeService.
Let's go down here and start our test.
It should be getting back a Set of recipes
right.
Let's see if they will run right now.
I'm guessing it will not but
did run.
Interesting. I thought I was
expecting Mockito to return back a null
value which would cause us a problem but
apparently did return back us up.
Let's take a look to see what that gives us.
So Mockito is giving us an empty set.
But what if we wanted that to actually
return back a value
like that. So obviously we do wanna get
something there.
Now we have a failing test and we
actually wanna return back a value. So
what we can do is tell the Mockito Mock
to return something.
So I'm creating a set. We're gonna add
in. I want that to be data not date. We'll add in the
recipe.
So now we have a set.
We're gonna tell Mockito to return
that and we are gonna use when.
IntelliJ should be finding
that for me.
Import static method there you are. Mockito
when so we need to do a static import
there.
We're gonna say recipeService dot
getRecipes then we're gonna say
thenReturn
and we're gonna give it a recipesData.
Hey guys I need to point out that I made
a little typo here in this video.
They're on line 42 where I'm doing the
one recipe service, I should be actually
for the repository and not the service
so the source code in the GitHub has
been corrected but I wanted to point
that out so this doesn't trip you up in
this video. Just a quick note that recipeService on line 42 in the when block
that should actually be the recipeRepository that we are setting up there
on line 42.
Just to recap what's going on there. We
created on line 38 to 40 we set up the
recipe data and then on 42 this is where
we're telling Mockito. We're saying
when when the recipeServic.getRecipes
is called then return back recipesData.
So we want our data
returned to the test. So let's go
ahead and run this again.
And now we are passing. But we can take
this a little bit further. When we're
working with mocks what we wanna do is
verify their interactions. So we can do
let's come down here and say verify.
So you can see that IntelliJ is bringing
that up for us already. We wanna
say the recipeRepository.
We're gonna use times
and we want to verify that it's called
once and do an alt+enter and we're gonna import that static method and we want
Mockito times. And now
we wanna say findAll() well like. So
what we're saying here verify that the
recipeRepository times once and
we're saying the method findAll(). So we're
saying we wanna make sure that
findAll() is called once and only once, not
twice, not zero, but once and so we're
gonna verify that the recipeRepository
was called like that. So let's go ahead
and run the test now.
We can see that we're still passing now.
If I were to change this to say three,
we'll see a failure.
Now you can see that down in the window
that we're saying wanted three
times but only one was called one
time. So it's a good way to verify that
your interactions within the class are
happening as expected. I'm gonna
change that back and make sure that our
tests are passing when we check in.
We got back to green. Alright that
was a very simple example of using
Mockito with Spring. Actually we didn't
even use Spring there. This is a pure
JUnit test and all we're using is Mockito
but we are testing a Spring class
that is already go for the Spring
Framework. But I want you keep in mind that
we had no time did we bring up the
Spring Context. We're using pure JUnit
here. It's a very fast test. You can see
how fast it runs so there's no Spring
Context involved but we are testing the
functionality of a bean that it's gonna
be managed by the Spring service or
by the Spring Context at run time. So
this is a very very common design
pattern here. Something that you'll see a lot
in use where you have a service layer,
you're injecting in repositories but you
wanna test that business logic inside
the service layer so you can write unit
tests
exactly like this and leverage Mockito
Mocks. So this is where why Spring is very
popular because you are using
leveraging that dependency injection
framework so you're injecting
dependencies like the repository here
and now we're using Mockito Mocks to
test that business logic inside the
service layer. So you're gonna see this a
lot and we are definitely gonna be
continuing to use Mockito throughout the
course when we have to test our
dependencies like that.